Wedding Kimono

The story


...The textiles were hand-woven specifically for the luxury ship, probably in the early 19th centry. I bought a basketful of them in an auction, and when I unpacked them I thought that these beautiful, thick fabricks resembled damask silks used for bridal garments in Shinto ceremonies. The idea to use cutlery as decoration occured to me when I first encountered the Japanese art of tea: I wondered what could happen if we brought our own cutlery to the table.
The WEDDING KI-MONO also reflects the roles in reltion to, and from, another person and his or her impact on our life, as well as the ultimate separation inherent to each reltionship. This is why I used cutlery connected with significant people and events in my life.
To make the decorative print and other 'embelishments of the kimono', I used original knoves and forks from the wedding gift received by my parents.

Over-interpretation
Tablecloths - food - consumption - wedding - parents - close persons
Tablecloths - cutlery - food

Chiyono

The story

...The fifty old cloths... are handmade products that carry dreams and memories, hours spent on preparingthe trousseau, embroidering initials on dish-cloths and bed linen.
We serve food on the table, the natural meeting place at home. The table is both inviting and disintegrating. The disintegration is part of a process that has a beauty of its own. The life between the bed and the table. Here we can undertake reflections on tradition and the family. Who are we? Are we living our visions and dreams? Kimono is the Japanese word for a 'thing to wear', 'clothing', i.e garments worn on a daily basis, also for cleaning and tidying.
The Polish and Swedish dish-cloths forming a Japanese woma's garment are an unexpexted combination. However, they complement each other, pointing to the traditional perception of the woman's role in dissimilar cultures.

Over-interpretation
In Japan, it is customary to reuse fabrics: to alter old kimono into smaller ones, and sew bags or dolls from small pieces of cloth. You can even find collections of fragments of precious fabric (e.g. theatre costumes) placed in albums or used to decorate screens.
The reuse of dish-cloths to create a garment potentially used in household chores invokes this custom.
The matter and the idea are one.
